Add documentation for serving a registry and director (#770)
PelicanPlatform/pelican: docs/pages/serving_a_federation.mdx

# Serve a Pelican Federation

> Federation in Pelican refers to an instance of a data sharing ecosystem where memebers of it can share and access data as objects. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _federation_ in Pelican refers to an instance of a data sharing ecosystem where memebers of it can share and access data as objects. To
```

> allow such exchange of data to work, Pelican has two top-level _central server components_ to coordiante origins and caches in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow such exchange of data to work, Pelican has two top-level _central server components_ to coordinate origins and caches in the
```

> federation, direct client requests to proper storage server, and manage namespace registration. They are *director* and *registry*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
federation, direct client requests to the proper storage server, and manage namespace registration. They are the *director* and the *registry*.
```

> A Pelican federation requires both *director* and *reigstry* to be set up first before any origin or cache server can join

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican federation requires both a *director* and a *registry* to be set up first before any origin or cache server can join
```

the federation or any client to access objects in the federaiton.

## Install Pelican

Grab the appropriate binary for your system from the [pelican repository](https://github.com/PelicanPlatform/pelican/releases). For more details, see [the installation instructions](/install.mdx).

## Prepare TLS Credentials

Pelican servers use `https` for serving its web UI and handling internal http requests. `https` requires a set of credential files in place to work, including:

- A valid TLS certificate
- The private key associated with the certificate
- The Intermediate Certificate or the chain file, that establishes the trust chain to a root certificate

> For local development and testing, you may skip setting up TLS credentials by setting configuration parameter `TLSSkipVerify` to `true`. You should **NOT** set this for production.

> You need to contact a Certifcate Authority (CA) who owns the root certificate for getting these credentials. One popular CA that provides free TLS certifactes is [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). You may follow [their guide](https://letsencrypt.org/getting-started/) to obtain the credentials listed above. **Note that you need to have a valid domain before proceeding.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to contact a Certificate Authority (CA) who owns the root certificate for getting these credentials. One popular CA that provides free TLS certificates is [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). You may follow [their guide](https://letsencrypt.org/getting-started/) to obtain the credentials listed above. **Note that you need to have a valid domain before proceeding.**
```

> Once you go through the process, locate your credential files and set the following parametes to the file locations, or copy the credential files to the default location of the parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you go through the process, locate your credential files and set the following parameters to the file locations, or copy the credential files to the default location of the parameter:
```

- `Server.TLSCertificate`

>   - The certicate file from Let's Encrypt, usually named as `example.com.crt` or `example.com.pem`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The certicate file from Let's Encrypt (or another CA), usually named as `example.com.crt` or `example.com.pem`
```

  - Default location: `~/.config/pelican/certificates/tls.crt` for non-root users or `/etc/pelican/certificates/tls.crt` for root users.

- `Server.TLSKey`
  - The private key corresponding to the TLS certificate, usually named as `example.com.key`.
  - Default location: `~/.config/pelican/certificates/tls.key` for non-root users or `/etc/pelican/certificates/tls.key` for root users.

- `Server.TLSCACertificateFile`

>   - The intermediate certificate from Let's Encrypt to establishe the trust chain to a root certificate, usually named as `letsencrypt-intermediate.pem` or `chain.pem`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The intermediate certificate from Let's Encrypt to establish the trust chain to a root certificate, usually named as `letsencrypt-intermediate.pem` or `chain.pem`
```

  - Default location: `~/.config/pelican/certificates/tlsca.pem` for non-root users or `/etc/pelican/certificates/tlsca.pem` for root users.

Since your TLS certificate is associated with your domain name, you will need to change the default hostname of Pelican server to be consistent. Set `Server.Hostname` to your domain name i.e. `example.com`.

## Serve a Registry

> Pelican _registry_ manages namespace registration and public keys distribution. An origin or cache will automatically attempt to register their namespace at their start. A federation user may also register a namespace without running a storage server by visiting the registry website.

Reviewer: Sometimes this is using * registry *  and sometimes it's using _ registry _ . While it might look the same, I think we should be internally consistent.

> Pelican _registry_ manages namespace registration and public keys distribution. An origin or cache will automatically attempt to register their namespace at their start. A federation user may also register a namespace without running a storage server by visiting the registry website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pelican _registry_ manages namespace registration and public key distribution. An origin or cache will automatically attempt to register their namespace at their start. A federation user may also register a namespace without running a storage server by visiting the registry website.
```

> Pelican _registry_ manages namespace registration and public keys distribution. An origin or cache will automatically attempt to register their namespace at their start. A federation user may also register a namespace without running a storage server by visiting the registry website.

Reviewer: Maybe explain who to get to a registry website here? Or link where that's explained?

### Get OIDC Credential (Required)

> Pelican reigstry follows [OIDC](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/) for user authentication, and [CILogon](https://www.cilogon.org/) is our OpenID Provider by default, which enables single sign-on for users with an account associated with an institution that joins CILogon. (Check out [this page](https://cilogon.org) for institutions in CILogon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pelican registry follows [OIDC](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/) for user authentication, and [CILogon](https://www.cilogon.org/) is our OpenID Provider by default, which enables single sign-on for users with an account associated with an institution that joins CILogon. (Check out [this page](https://cilogon.org) for institutions in CILogon)
```

> For your Pelican registry to work, you need to obtain a client id and associated client secret from CILogon. [This page](https://www.cilogon.org/oidc#h.p_ID_38) details where can how you can request a client credential. You will need to register your client at https://cilogon.org/oauth2/register and wait for approval before proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your Pelican registry to work, you need to obtain a client id and associated client secret from CILogon. [This page](https://www.cilogon.org/oidc#h.p_ID_38) details how you can request a client credential. You will need to register your client at https://cilogon.org/oauth2/register and wait for approval before proceed.
```

> Once approved, you will get your `client_id` and `client_secret` from CILogon, and you need to pass them as configuration parameter and configuration files to Pelican.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once approved, you will get your `client_id` and `client_secret` from CILogon, and you need to pass them as configuration parameters and configuration files to Pelican.
```

> * Set `OIDC.ClientID` config parameter to your `<client_id>` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the `OIDC.ClientID` config parameter to your `<client_id>` value.
```

> * Create a file under `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a file named `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret`
```

  ```
  touch /etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret
  ```

> * Copy and paste your `client_secret` to the file. Please don't share your `client_secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Copy and paste your `client_secret` into the file. Please don't share your `client_secret`.
```

If you prefer to store your `client_secret` file in a path different from the default file path, change `OIDC.ClientSecretFile` to your desired file location.

#### Bypass Required Credential Check

> If you want to run your registry as an admin and not allow users to login via CILogon, you will need to create file under `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-id` and `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret` and populate the files with non-empty content. Note that by doing this, when your user attempt to use `CILogon` to login to your registry, they will get an error page from `CILogon`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to run your registry as an admin and not allow users to login via CILogon, you will need to create two files named `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-id` and `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret` and populate the files with non-empty content. Note that by doing this, when your user attempts to use `CILogon` to login to your registry, they will get an error page from `CILogon`.
```

> If you want to run your registry as an admin and not allow users to login via CILogon, you will need to create file under `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-id` and `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret` and populate the files with non-empty content. Note that by doing this, when your user attempt to use `CILogon` to login to your registry, they will get an error page from `CILogon`.

Reviewer: I think why this works is a bit opaque. Users will want to know if it needs to be anything specific and if not, why not.

### Finish Setup

That's it! Now you can serve the registry by running the following command:

```bash
pelican registry serve
```

and you will see the following message:

```console
Pelican admin interface is not initialized
To initialize, login at https://<hostname>:8444/view/initialization/code/ with the following code:
865309
```

> By default, registry runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a registry runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving
```

the registry, or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.

Now you want to initialize the admin account for your registry web UI. You may refer to https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/serving_an_origin#running-origin-serve for details.

> Once you finished the initialization, you should be able to see the following page as an admin user (lists are expected to be empty at a fresh start):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you finish the initialization, you should be able to see the following page as an admin user (lists are expected to be empty at a fresh start):
```

<ExportedImage src={"/pelican/registry-admin.png"} alt={"Image registry home page in public view"} />

> You may view and manage namespaces registered in your federation. Pending registrations are shown as the first list, you can click each namespace strip for its detail information. You can click the check button to approve a namespace registration or the cross button to deny the registration. As an admin user, you can also edit the registration by clicking the pencil icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may view and manage namespaces registered in your federation. Pending registrations are shown as the first list and you can click each namespace strip for more detailed information. You can click the check button to approve a namespace registration or the cross button to deny the registration. As an admin user, you can also edit the registration by clicking the pencil icon.
```

For approved namespaces, you can download the public key associated with the namespace by clicking the downward-arrow button.

> The homepage of the registry web UI is also publicly accessible, meaning users can see a list of _approved_ namespaces without logging into the registry. Denied and pending registrations are hidden from the public view. The image below shows how the public view looks like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The homepage of the registry web UI is also publicly accessible, meaning users can see a list of _approved_ namespaces without logging into the registry. Denied and pending registrations are hidden from the public view. The image below shows what the public view looks like.
```

<ExportedImage src={"/pelican/registry-public.png"} alt={"Image of registry homepage in public view"} />

### Useful Configurations for the Registry

There are a couple of configuration parameters you could use to customize the behavior of your registry. Here we highlight the ones that are most frequently set for an admin. You may refer to the full set of registry parameters in the [Parameters page](https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Registry-DbLocation).

#### `Registry.AdminUsers`

> By default, Pelican registry only has one user with admin privilege, which is whoever started the registry service and initialize the web UI with the admin password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Pelican registry only has one user with admin privilege, which is whoever starts the registry service and initializes the web UI with the admin password.
```

> However, Pelican also allows you to pass a list of CILogon user identities and grant them the admin privilege. This requires you have your CILogon `client_id` and `client_secret` set up. The user identity of each admin user can be found on their https://cilogon.org/ user page, under "User Attributes", `CILogon User Identifier`, which looks something like `http://cilogon.org/serverA/users/123456`. Once you have the idetifier, simply pass them as an array to `Registry.AdminUsers`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Pelican also allows you to pass a list of CILogon user identities and grant them the admin privilege. This requires you have your CILogon `client_id` and `client_secret` set up. The user identity of each admin user can be found on their https://cilogon.org/ user page, under "User Attributes", `CILogon User Identifier`, which looks something like `http://cilogon.org/serverA/users/123456`. Once you have the identifiers, simply pass them as an array to `Registry.AdminUsers`:
```

```yaml
Registry:
  AdminUsers: ["http://cilogon.org/serverA/users/123456"]
```

#### `Registry.RequireOriginApproval`

> By default, Pelican registry allows any origins to join the federation and serve objects (not the case for OSDF). If can set `Registry.RequireOriginApproval` if you want to review registration details of a new origin before allowing it to join your federation. What `Registry.RequireOriginApproval == true`, new origin can successfully _register_ against your regisry, but the director will not be able to direct object request to the unapproved origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a Pelican registry allows any origin to join the federation and serve objects (not the case if running in OSDF mode). You can set `Registry.RequireOriginApproval` if you want to review registration details of a new origin before allowing it to join your federation. With `Registry.RequireOriginApproval == true`, a new origin can successfully _register_ against your registry, but the director will not be able to direct object requests to the unapproved origin.
```

A registry admin may edit, review, approve, or deny a new origin registration in your registry Web UI.

#### `Registry.RequireCacheApproval`

> Similarly, Pelican by default allows any cache to join the federation. You can set `Registry.RequireCacheApproval` to `true` in order for caches to be approved before they can serve an object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, Pelican by default allows any cache to join the federation. You can set `Registry.RequireCacheApproval` to `true` in order for caches to require approval before they can serve an object.
```

#### `Registry.RequireKeyChaining`

By default, Pelican requires namespaces requesting registration to possess a key matching any already-registered super/sub namespaces. For example, if a namespace `/foo/bar` is already registered, then registration of `/foo` or `/foo/bar/baz` can only be done using the public key registered to `/foo/bar`.

#### `Registry.Institutions` and `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`

> In registry web UI, when a user wants to register a namespace, they must specify which institution this namespace is for, which is a list of options you need to provide. To do so, you may either feed a list of `name` and `id` pairs of available institutions to register to `Registry.Institutions`, or if you already have a web endpoint to serve such information, you may pass the URL to `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`. Please refer to https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Registry-Institutions for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the registry web UI, when a user wants to register a namespace, they must specify which institution this namespace is for, which is a list of options you need to provide. To do so, you may either feed a list of `name` and `id` pairs of available institutions to register to `Registry.Institutions`, or if you already have a web endpoint to serve such information, you may pass the URL to `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`. Please refer to https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Registry-Institutions for details.
```

## Serve a Director

> Pelican _director_ handles data distribution in a Pelican federation. It directs object request from a Pelican client to the proper object provider (can be cache or oriign). It also maintains a collection of actively running origin/cache servers in the federation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican _director_ handles data distribution in a Pelican federation. It directs object requests from a Pelican client to the proper object provider (which can be a cache or an origin). It also maintains a collection of actively running origin/cache servers in the federation.
```

### Get MaxMind License key (required)

> Pelican director uses the [MaxMind GeoLite City database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican director uses the [MaxMind GeoLite City database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country)
```

to determine which cache is nearest to a client's IP address.
The database, if not already found,
will be downloaded automatically when a director is served and a valid key is present. The database is free to use, but you need a GeoLite2 account
and provide a license key to Pelican so that we can download the database for you.

> Please follow the instruction [here](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country) to [register a free account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup) and [get your license key](https://www.maxmind.com/en/accounts/current/license-key/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions [here](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country) to [register a free account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup) and [get your license key](https://www.maxmind.com/en/accounts/current/license-key/).
```

> Once your have the key, copy and paste it to a desired location on your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the key, copy and paste it to a desired location on your server.
```

Then pass the file location to `Director.MaxMindKeyFile`.

### Set Registry URL (required)

> Pelican director needs to talk to the registry to get the public keys for namespaces. You will need to set `Federation.RegistryUrl` to the public endpoint of your registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican director needs to talk to a registry to get the public keys for namespaces. You will need to set `Federation.RegistryUrl` to the public endpoint of your registry
```

> for Pelican director to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for your Pelican director to work.
```

### Director as a Federation (optional)

For Pelican origins and caches, they need to know where the _federation_ is so that they can

> attemp to join it. They know it either by manually passed configuration values or by requesting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attempt to join it. This can be done by either manually passing configuration values or by requesting the
```

> attemp to join it. They know it either by manually passed configuration values or by requesting

Reviewer: I actually don't think the cache can read from the configuration values anymore. If you pass a Federation.DirectorUrl when serving a cache, it won't work because it needs to have it into the form of "pelican://" rather than "https://" and if you provide the "pelican://" as the Federation.DirectorUrl, then the cache will fail to advertise since it needs the "https://" url to do so. But this might be more of an issue for serving a cache rather than dealing with the director.

Author: hmmm. So how can a cache know where it should advertise to? (but I think the rest of the servers still benefit from having director as a federation)

Reviewer: If you set `Federation.DiscoveryUrl` to be the director's URL when serving a cache, then it's fine. It's only if the `Federation.DirectorUrl` is explicitly se that the director has problems. So you can't manually pass the DirectorUrl configuration values to a cache. It will fail. However, I feel like this is something that could be fixed relatively easily.

Author: That makes sense to me. Yes, we should probably fix the issue here

`Federation.DiscoveryUrl` endpoint, which contains various URLs to a federation's registry and director.

> You may supply your own endpoint to provide such information, or Pelican director can do it for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may supply your own endpoint to provide such information, or the Pelican director can do it for you.
```

> This can be done by setting `Federation.DiscoveryUrl` of your _origins_ and _caches_ to the public url of your director, i.e. `https://<your-director-hostname>:<director-web-port>`. Make sure your director is up and running before starting your origins and caches.

Reviewer: See above comment.

### Finish Setup

That's it! Now you can serve the director by running the following command:

```bash
pelican director serve
```

and you will see the following message:

```console
Pelican admin interface is not initialized
To initialize, login at https://<hostname>:8444/view/initialization/code/ with the following code:
865309
```

> By default, redirect runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a director runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving
```

the director, or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.

To finish setting up the web UI for the director, please refer to the previous section in the registry. Once finished the initialization and login with your admin password, you should be able to see the following page as an admin user (lists are expected to be empty at a fresh start):

<ExportedImage src={"/pelican/director-homepage.png"} alt={"Image of director homepage in admin view"} />

The "Origins" table and "Caches" table show the _active_ origins and caches in the federtaion.

### Useful Configurations for Director

There are a couple of configuration parameters you could use to customize the behavior of your registry. Here we highlight the ones that are most frequently set for an admin. You may refer to the full set of director parameters in the [Parameters page](https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Director-DefaultResponse).

#### `Director.DefaultResponse`

> Pelican director by default redirects object request from clients to the geospatially nearest cache in the federation, to improve data transfer efficiency. If a director is hosted at https://director.com, then a `GET` request to https://director.com/foo/bar.txt will be redirected to the nearest cache for namespace `/foo`. You may change the default response type of a redirect for director by setting `Director.DefaultResponse`. It can be either `cache` or `origin`. If set to `origin`, director will redirect the request to the origin, bypassing caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican director by default redirects object request from clients to the geospatially nearest cache in the federation to improve data transfer efficiency. If a director is hosted at https://director.com, then a `GET` request to https://director.com/foo/bar.txt will be redirected to the nearest cache for namespace `/foo`. You may change the default response type of a redirect for director by setting `Director.DefaultResponse`. It can be either `cache` or `origin`. If set to `origin`, director will redirect the request to the origin, bypassing caches.
```

#### `GeoIPOverrides`

The MaxMind database may fail to return a valid longitute/latitute pair given a server IP. For example, the database does not support IPV6 addresses. In such cases, you may pass a list of IP addresses to `GeoIPOverrides` parameter whose GeoIP resolution should be overridden with the supplied Lat/Long coordinates (in decimal form). This affects both server ads (for determining the location of origins and caches) and incoming client requests (for determing where a client request is coming from).

#### `Director.CacheResponseHostnames` and `Director.OriginResponseHostnames`

> You may allow the director to redirect client traffic to both caches and origins. You can do it by adding virtual hostnames to `Director.CacheResponseHostnames` for cache response or `Director.OriginResponseHostnames` for origin reponse. If a request is sent by the client to one of these hostnames, the director assumes it should respond with a redirect to a cache/origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may allow the director to redirect client traffic to both caches and origins. You can do it by adding virtual hostnames to `Director.CacheResponseHostnames` for a cache response or `Director.OriginResponseHostnames` for an origin response. If a request is sent by the client to one of these hostnames, the director assumes it should respond with a redirect to a cache/origin.
```

If you prefer to store your `client_secret` file in a path different from the default file path, change `OIDC.ClientSecretFile` to your desired file location.

#### Bypass Required Credential Check

To run the registry without CILogon credentials, create two files named `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-id` and `/etc/pelican/oidc-client-secret` and populate the files with non-empty content. Pelican checks if the files exit and are non-empty. It won't check the content of the file.

Note that by doing this, when users attempt to use `CILogon` to login to the registry, they will get an error page from `CILogon`, and it's only possible to login using admin password.

### Finish Setup

That's it! Now you can serve the registry by running the following command:

```bash
pelican registry serve
```

and you will see the following message:

```console
Pelican admin interface is not initialized
To initialize, login at https://<hostname>:8444/view/initialization/code/ with the following code:
865309
```

By default, a registry runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving

> the registry, or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the registry or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.
```

A registry admin may edit, review, approve, or deny a new origin registration in your registry Web UI.

#### `Registry.RequireCacheApproval`

Similarly, Pelican by default allows any cache to join the federation. You can set `Registry.RequireCacheApproval` to `true` in order for caches to require approval before they can serve an object.

#### `Registry.RequireKeyChaining`

By default, Pelican requires namespaces requesting registration to possess a key matching any already-registered super/sub namespaces. For example, if a namespace `/foo/bar` is already registered, then registration of `/foo` or `/foo/bar/baz` can only be done using the public key registered to `/foo/bar`.

#### `Registry.Institutions` and `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`

> In the registry web UI, when a user wants to register a namespace, they must specify which institution this namespace is for, which is a list of options you need to provide. To do so, you may either feed a list of `name` and `id` pairs of available institutions to register to `Registry.Institutions`, or if you already have a web endpoint to serve such information, you may pass the URL to `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`. Please refer to https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Registry-Institutions for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user wants to register a namespace In the registry web UI they must specify which institution this namespace is for. This is a list of options you need to provide. To do so you may either feed a list of `name` and `id` pairs of available institutions to register to `Registry.Institutions` or, if you already have a web endpoint to serve such information, you may pass the URL to `Registry.InstitutionsUrl`. Please refer to https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Registry-Institutions for details.
```

### Get MaxMind License key (required)

A Pelican director uses the [MaxMind GeoLite City database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country)
to determine which cache is nearest to a client's IP address.
The database, if not already found,
will be downloaded automatically when a director is served and a valid key is present. The database is free to use, but you need a GeoLite2 account
and provide a license key to Pelican so that we can download the database for you.
Please follow the instructions [here](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/databases/city-and-country) to [register a free account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup) and [get your license key](https://www.maxmind.com/en/accounts/current/license-key/).

Once you have the key, copy and paste it to a desired location on your server.
Then pass the file location to `Director.MaxMindKeyFile`.

### Set Registry URL (required)

A Pelican director needs to talk to the registry to get the public keys for namespaces. You will need to set `Federation.RegistryUrl` to the public endpoint of your registry

> for your Pelican director to work.

Reviewer: Maybe add something about how this normally looks like `hostname`:`port`?

### Director as a Federation (optional)

For Pelican origins and caches, they need to know where the *federation* is so that they can
attempt to join it. This can be done by either manually passing configuration values or by requesting the
`Federation.DiscoveryUrl` endpoint, which contains various URLs to a federation's registry and director.

> You may supply your own endpoint to provide such information, or the Pelican director can do it for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may supply your own endpoint to provide such information or the Pelican director can do it for you.
```

This can be done by setting `Federation.DiscoveryUrl` of your *origins* and *caches* to the public url of your director, i.e. `https://<your-director-hostname>:<director-web-port>`. Make sure your director is up and running before starting your origins and caches.

### Finish Setup

That's it! Now you can serve the director by running the following command:

```bash
pelican director serve
```

and you will see the following message:

```console
Pelican admin interface is not initialized
To initialize, login at https://<hostname>:8444/view/initialization/code/ with the following code:
865309
```

By default, a director runs on port `8444`. You may change the port number by passing `-p <port>` when serving

> the director, or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the director or by setting `Server.WebPort` in the configuration file.
```

To finish setting up the web UI for the director, please refer to the previous section in the registry. Once finished the initialization and login with your admin password, you should be able to see the following page as an admin user (lists are expected to be empty at a fresh start):

<ExportedImage src={"/pelican/director-homepage.png"} alt={"Image of director homepage in admin view"} />

The "Origins" table and "Caches" table show the *active* origins and caches in the federtaion.

### Useful Configurations for Director

There are a couple of configuration parameters you could use to customize the behavior of your registry. Here we highlight the ones that are most frequently set for an admin. You may refer to the full set of director parameters in the [Parameters page](https://docs.pelicanplatform.org/parameters#Director-DefaultResponse).

#### `Director.DefaultResponse`

> A Pelican director by default redirects object request from clients to the geospatially nearest cache in the federation, to improve data transfer efficiency. If a director is hosted at https://director.com, then a `GET` request to https://director.com/foo/bar.txt will be redirected to the nearest cache for namespace `/foo`. You may change the default response type of a redirect for director by setting `Director.DefaultResponse`. It can be either `cache` or `origin`. If set to `origin`, director will redirect the request to the origin, bypassing caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pelican director by default redirects object request from clients to the geospatially nearest cache in the federation to improve data transfer efficiency. If a director is hosted at https://director.com, then a `GET` request to https://director.com/foo/bar.txt will be redirected to the nearest cache for namespace `/foo`. You may change the default response type of a redirect for director by setting `Director.DefaultResponse`. It can be either `cache` or `origin`. If set to `origin`, director will redirect the request to the origin, bypassing caches.
```

#### `GeoIPOverrides`

The MaxMind database may fail to return a valid longitute/latitute pair given a server IP. For example, the database does not support IPV6 addresses. In such cases, you may pass a list of IP addresses to `GeoIPOverrides` parameter whose GeoIP resolution should be overridden with the supplied Lat/Long coordinates (in decimal form). This affects both server ads (for determining the location of origins and caches) and incoming client requests (for determing where a client request is coming from).

#### `Director.CacheResponseHostnames` and `Director.OriginResponseHostnames`

You may allow the director to redirect client traffic to both caches and origins. You can do it by adding virtual hostnames to `Director.CacheResponseHostnames` for a cache response or `Director.OriginResponseHostnames` for an origin response. If a request is sent by the client to one of these hostnames, the director assumes it should respond with a redirect to a cache/origin.

> If present, the hostname is taken from the    `X-Forwarded-Host` header in the request. Otherwise, Host is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If present, the hostname is taken from the `X-Forwarded-Host` header in the request. Otherwise, Host is used.
```

865309
```

> > Note that your code is different from what is being shown here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that your code will be different from what is being shown here.
```
